README.md, before:

# Filthy

> A disgustingly clean ZSH prompt

![](screenshots/title.png)


## Overview

Based on the great [pure theme](http://github.com/sindresorhus/pure) by [@sindresorhus](http://github.com/sindresorhus) and [@mafredri](https://github.com/mafredri), but with a few notable changes.

* Prompt character is green when previous command was successful, red when not.
* Git repo info shown in RPROMPT.
* Path is shown relative to `git-root` when in a repository.
* Current commit/tag shown if HEAD is detached.
* 'Initial' status is shown in a new repo
* User and host always shown in RPROMPT, green for standard users, red if privileged.
* Command execution time shows in ms if less than one second has elapsed.
* Temporary messages can be displayed in the pre-prompt, e.g. to show feedback after an asynchronous command has completed. Just echo the text you want to display to `${ZDOTDIR:-$HOME}/.promptmsg`. The message is automagically cleared once shown.

## Install

Can be installed with `npm` or manually. Requires git 1.7.10+ and ZSH 4.3.17+.

(To show current tag/commit when head is detached, git 2.0.0+ is required. Otherwise it just shows 'no branch')

### npm

```
npm install --global filthy-prompt
```

That's it. Skip to [Getting started](#getting-started).

### [Zulu](http://github.com/zulu-zsh/zulu)

```
zulu install filthy
zulu theme filthy
```

### Manually

1. Either…
  - Clone this repo
  - add it as a submodule, or
  - just download `filthy.zsh`

2. Symlink `filthy.zsh` to somewhere in [`$fpath`](http://www.refining-linux.org/archives/46/ZSH-Gem-12-Autoloading-functions/) with the name `prompt_filthy_setup`.

#### Example

```
$ ln -s "$PWD/filthy.zsh" /usr/local/share/zsh/site-functions/prompt_filthy_setup
```
*Run `echo $fpath` to see possible locations.*

For a user-specific installation (which would not require escalated privileges), simply add a directory to `$fpath` for that user:

```sh
# .zshenv or .zshrc
fpath=( "$HOME/.zfunctions" $fpath )
```

Then install the theme there:

```sh
$ ln -s "$PWD/filthy.zsh" "$HOME/.zfunctions/prompt_filthy_setup"
```

## Getting started

Initialize the prompt system (if not so already) and choose `filthy`:

```sh
# .zshrc
autoload -U promptinit && promptinit
prompt filthy
```


## Options

### `FILTHY_CMD_MAX_EXEC_TIME`

The max execution time of a process before its run time is shown when it exits. Defaults to `5` seconds.

### `FILTHY_SHOW_EXIT_CODE=1`

Prints a nice exit code in front of the prompt character when the previous
command exited with a status not equal to `0`

### `FILTHY_SHOW_ZSH_VERSION=1`

Prints the current value of `$ZSH_VERSION` in `$RPROMPT`

## Example

```sh
# .zshrc

autoload -U promptinit && promptinit

# optionally define some options
FILTHY_CMD_MAX_EXEC_TIME=10

prompt filthy
```


## Tips

[Base16 Ocean](http://chriskempson.github.io/base16/#ocean) theme with the [Nitti Light](https://www.boldmonday.com/typeface/nitti/) font (18pt) is a beautiful combination, as seen in the screenshot above. Just make sure you have anti-aliasing enabled in your Terminal.

To have commands colorized as seen in the screenshot install [zsh-syntax-highlighting](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-syntax-highlighting).


## Integration

### [oh-my-zsh](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh)

1. Symlink (or copy) `filthy.zsh` to `~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/filthy.zsh-theme`
2. Add `ZSH_THEME="filthy"` to your `.zshrc` file.

### [prezto](https://github.com/sorin-ionescu/prezto)

Set `zstyle ':prezto:module:prompt' theme 'filthy'` in `~/.zpreztorc`.

## License

MIT © [James Dinsdale](https://molovo.co)

Commit message:

Add FILTHY_ALWAYS_SHOW_FULL_PATH option

README.md, after:

# Filthy

> A disgustingly clean ZSH prompt

![](screenshots/title.png)


## Overview

Based on the great [pure theme](http://github.com/sindresorhus/pure) by [@sindresorhus](http://github.com/sindresorhus) and [@mafredri](https://github.com/mafredri), but with a few notable changes.

* Prompt character is green when previous command was successful, red when not.
* Git repo info shown in RPROMPT.
* Path is shown relative to `git-root` when in a repository.
* Current commit/tag shown if HEAD is detached.
* 'Initial' status is shown in a new repo
* User and host always shown in RPROMPT, green for standard users, red if privileged.
* Command execution time shows in ms if less than one second has elapsed.
* Temporary messages can be displayed in the pre-prompt, e.g. to show feedback after an asynchronous command has completed. Just echo the text you want to display to `${ZDOTDIR:-$HOME}/.promptmsg`. The message is automagically cleared once shown.

## Install

Can be installed with `npm` or manually. Requires git 1.7.10+ and ZSH 4.3.17+.

(To show current tag/commit when head is detached, git 2.0.0+ is required. Otherwise it just shows 'no branch')

### npm

```
npm install --global filthy-prompt
```

That's it. Skip to [Getting started](#getting-started).

### [Zulu](http://github.com/zulu-zsh/zulu)

```
zulu install filthy
zulu theme filthy
```

### Manually

1. Either…
  - Clone this repo
  - add it as a submodule, or
  - just download `filthy.zsh`

2. Symlink `filthy.zsh` to somewhere in [`$fpath`](http://www.refining-linux.org/archives/46/ZSH-Gem-12-Autoloading-functions/) with the name `prompt_filthy_setup`.

#### Example

```
$ ln -s "$PWD/filthy.zsh" /usr/local/share/zsh/site-functions/prompt_filthy_setup
```
*Run `echo $fpath` to see possible locations.*

For a user-specific installation (which would not require escalated privileges), simply add a directory to `$fpath` for that user:

```sh
# .zshenv or .zshrc
fpath=( "$HOME/.zfunctions" $fpath )
```

Then install the theme there:

```sh
$ ln -s "$PWD/filthy.zsh" "$HOME/.zfunctions/prompt_filthy_setup"
```

## Getting started

Initialize the prompt system (if not so already) and choose `filthy`:

```sh
# .zshrc
autoload -U promptinit && promptinit
prompt filthy
```


## Options

### `FILTHY_CMD_MAX_EXEC_TIME`

The max execution time of a process before its run time is shown when it exits. Defaults to `5` seconds.

### `FILTHY_SHOW_EXIT_CODE=1`

Prints a nice exit code in front of the prompt character when the previous
command exited with a status not equal to `0`

### `FILTHY_SHOW_ZSH_VERSION=1`

Prints the current value of `$ZSH_VERSION` in `$RPROMPT`

### `FILTHY_ALWAYS_SHOW_FULL_PATH=1`

Do not show relative paths when `$PWD` is within a git repository

## Example

```sh
# .zshrc

autoload -U promptinit && promptinit

# optionally define some options
FILTHY_CMD_MAX_EXEC_TIME=10

prompt filthy
```


## Tips

[Base16 Ocean](http://chriskempson.github.io/base16/#ocean) theme with the [Nitti Light](https://www.boldmonday.com/typeface/nitti/) font (18pt) is a beautiful combination, as seen in the screenshot above. Just make sure you have anti-aliasing enabled in your Terminal.

To have commands colorized as seen in the screenshot install [zsh-syntax-highlighting](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-syntax-highlighting).


## Integration

### [oh-my-zsh](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh)

1. Symlink (or copy) `filthy.zsh` to `~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/filthy.zsh-theme`
2. Add `ZSH_THEME="filthy"` to your `.zshrc` file.

### [prezto](https://github.com/sorin-ionescu/prezto)

Set `zstyle ':prezto:module:prompt' theme 'filthy'` in `~/.zpreztorc`.

## License

MIT © [James Dinsdale](https://molovo.co)
